Hello everybody and welcome back.
The first thing I'm going to do before I do anything else is I'm just going to tidy up our export folders
for the moment and what I tend to do when I'm working with these sorts of projects I make sure that
things like the folder structure are set up before I start rendering so I'm going to call this test
one and to lamp them off first test that we were doing.
I'll go in there and dump the stuff in.
Now the next one I'm going to use is lamp multi blend.
So what we're going to do in this particular lecture is make sure that we can render out using multiple
blender instances.
Now if this was a shared folder that was in a dropbox file or a shared Nass on a network this would
be brilliant because then you could use every computer on that particular network to help you render
out but there were a few key steps.
Let's go through them now.
So let's go ahead and launch blender once we've done that.
We can open up our animated lamp.
Now the first thing I'm going to do because otherwise we're going to end up in a bit of a pickle is
delete this time line.
All of this actually show you what happens.
So we've done everything here we come in we say yes this time we want to attend ATP render we can go
ahead and render look quite right.
Why doesn't it look right.
Well we don't actually have the rendering of this coming out.
We've got the rendering of this lots and because I've just moved all of those images it's coming out
blank.
So let's go ahead and delete those strips with the X key and then come back into layout.
Now when we press F 12 it should take a few seconds to render out.
There we go.
So this is taking about two and a half seconds to render.
If I use my CPO I know it's going to take about eight seconds to render I've done some tests.
I'm going to bore you with rendering those out.
So roughly speaking there are a couple of ways that I could manage this.
The first one is to set explicitly how many frames I want.
Each computer to render so I could set frame one to forty being on my CPO and then 41 to 200 being on
the GP.
That would be one way of managing that the easier way of managing it.
Certainly if you've got connections between multiple computers is to have place holders in place.
So we have a look at the outputs happened scroll down a little further.
Let's go ahead and find the right folder.
So lamp multi blender except it's important that we get all of these right before we set up anything
else.
Now the FFA MPEG video are coming back now to PSG.
It is important that when you render out using this method that it is in images.
Otherwise it won't really work as we want it to.
But what is really important is that place holders are there.
And what that means is before even finishes off the render it puts a place holder a file there so that
when the next version of blender or the next instance a blender starts looking for the next thing to
write.
So it's going to skip that one.
Otherwise you would just be repeating yourself over and over.
And the important thing here is to unseal act or these select the overwrite.
Otherwise it would just overwrite everything.
Those two really need to be over toggle on and off with each other.
But anyway let's go ahead and save.
It's important that we save at this point because this is going to be the GP you sets up.
So we have a look we use in cycles GP you and we know from that it's going to take about two minutes
55.
That's the first one rented out.
And of course that frame is going to be in there.
Now if we go ahead and start the render the computer will get bogged down and it won't really work as
we want it to.
But what I can do before we do this is once again I'm going to save when all I'm going to do is I'm
going to change how we're rendering out.
So there are a couple of things to go through I'll show you that now when it's on one system of course
if it was on multiple systems then you would pretty much just do the same thing on multiple setups.
So she have if you had computers that were exactly the same or incredibly similar.
So if I go ahead now and reopen up animated lamp think of this one as a read only that's important because
we don't want to save anything here or reopen or change anything apart from how we're rendering it.
So we're going to render it using the CPO instead of the GPO and we do need to change if we come down
here the tiles because that's clicking and dragging there to alter multiple cells if we don't change
this it will be incredibly slow and a complete waste of our time.
So I know on this CPO about 16 is the right sort of time that will take and if I render this out to
give you an idea of times now you cannot extrapolate this to everything.
If there's more going on in the scene it's going to take longer to render but you could see there all
those under seven seconds the last time I did it it was over.
So it does vary as well depending on what your computer's doing.
Great.
So everything now technically is all set up.
We've got this image coming out into the appropriate folder.
Let's go to make sure multi lamp blender doesn't have anything in it at the moment.
Let's go and check and make sure our file paths are correct before we start going so let's look back
in Blender.
This is something that is very important do these sorts of tests first before you go ahead and start
mucking around with something.
Otherwise it's very easy to suddenly find ah I can't do anything so I'm just going to call this lamp
actually and one of the reasons why I was saying that you should try to avoid making multiple changes
is exactly this.
If we didn't have exactly the same file name if there was a space or something on there then you're
not going to be able to make sure for certain when you open this one up that it's the right one in fact
it's very easy to get confused they're both called the same thing they both now need saving.
So there's nothing to distinguish the two from each other.
So lamp multi blender lamp.
Okay let's go ahead and start rendering so let's render out animation.
This is the CPA.
I'm going to move out of the way and I'm going to hide that as well so I know that one is out of the
way and now things will get slightly chunky so perhaps I should have used my GP you to start with but
there we go.
Render render animation now.
All being well look at the top here it started on frame four frame six so it's doing both of them at
the same time which is fantastic.
Let me see if I can go ahead and find where we're doing so here we can see it's a place holder in it
it's not ready yet then all of a sudden it writes the file down creates a new one and then the next
thing goes across.
Now if you scaled this across something that synchronize is over the web like one drive drop box etc
you may find occasionally you end up with duplicates not duplicates in the sense that you will have
to number 15s a copy of but you will end up with one computer and another computer actually doing the
same work at the same time.
I've never really seen it corrupt an image but I could imagine it might do if if you're not careful
but I can imagine it might do under certain circumstances.
But what we've got now is this image being rendered out pretty much as fast as my computer can physically
do it.
So let's have a look at what's going on so this one here as we can see with the big tile sizes is definitely
the GPO and it's still going between two seconds and three seconds.
So that seems pretty consistent with our first run but let's also have a look briefly at how the CPI
version is doing as well which is this one here and that's also actually taking around the seven seconds
seven to eight seconds that I thought it was going to take.
So that's really good.
That means that everything's working everything's working pretty much how I expected it to and what
we will end up with is basically 40 of the framed in total being rendered by the CPA and another 160
on the jeep here just shows you how powerful Jeep views are.
Now if I were also you was using another computer I could basically be doing four images at a time and
that problem I was talking to you about where you could potentially end up with one computer rendering
the same frame as another.
The longer your renders take the less likely that is to happen when they're only taking less than 10
seconds per frame.
It's more likely that you will end up with a computer rendering a frame that's already been rendered
but this is the way that you would manage it.
If this was in Dropbox one drive or any other file synchronization service it would work absolutely
fine.
And of course the other thing you can do is have a shared drive and render directly to that.
So this would work absolutely fine as well with a Nass.
That's really good because that means that there's definitely none of this waiting for files to synchronize
because you're writing directly to the drive rather than waiting for something like one drive or Dropbox
to synchronize.
Those are only of course two of the many many choices you've got synchronize your files but if you've
got a NASS That would be even better you can guarantee that once the place holder is created it's going
to be instantly viewable.
Everything else on the network itself.
But if you've got computers that are remote like I often have my laptop I'm out of a house.
I will send the render all the way over to the desktop and let that do the big heavy lifting whilst
I'm still working on other things or if I've just got a tight deadline I'll often employs many computers
as I can get my hands on which is often a bone of contention in my household when they're all busy rendering.
But anyway that's it for this lecture.
We can see this really increases our render speed.
You can do this with multiple computers with no particular issues.
Now blended does have a network render option.
We're not going to go into details in this course about that.
I've had ropey experience with it and often find it's much easier to do it this way.
However with the network rendering there is a benefits to it if you can get it working.
They either have to worry about changing your settings for the machine slash whether it's using CPR.
Of course if I was just rendering out on GP use that were all roughly the same type.
Then there wouldn't have been any faffing to go around and the same if I was using CPS of a various
type.
I really hope that this helps you out when it comes to rendering larger animations not just larger in
length but larger in quality so if you if you've got a higher number of samples if it's larger in its
resolution these are all potential things that can slow down you get in your content out there and I
must impress upon you.
Don't crank the samples up to 2000 unless you've done at least one frame test at 2000 so make sure that
is as high as you need to go.
I very rarely need to go above to 300.
It has to be a very specific scene to need that many samples.
You've really done is waste energy to be quite honest in many many cases.
There are some things that do require that high but most of the stuff not so I really hope you're enjoying
being able to use multiple computers now in multiple instances a blender on one computer and I look
forward to seeing your work being produced and I'll see you all in the next lecture.